# Development

This document outlines the decisions made when designing the application and its internal component.
It is not an exhaustive list of everything but more of most notable keynotes.

## Project Structure

All top level directories have a different purpose and contain part of the development process.
This section outlines them in different main categories and briefly explains them.

### Development And Documentation

`.devcontainer`: [Developer-Container](https://containers.dev/) configurations.  
`.github`: [GitHub related](https://docs.github.com/actions/get-started/quickstart) configurations.  
`docs`: Application documentations like this document.  
`scripts`: Contains scripts to help with developing the application such as generating documentations, etc.  
`test`: Contains test units to ensure the application integrity when compiling.

### Source Code

`plugins`: Contains additional scripts to autoload and run during the application operation. Can be used to add more scripts. See [How to create plugins](./PLUGIN-TUTORIAL.md)  
`resources`: Contains resources for the application to use during its operation.  
`src`: Contains all the application source code

### Runtime Generated

`config`: Generated directory made by the application during its runtime. All configuration and database are saved there.  
`logs`: Auto generated by the application during its runtime. Contains the application runtime logs.  
`node_modules`: Generated by the installer. [Contains dependencies and other external scripts](https://www.npmjs.com/) written by different external authors.

## Source Code Structure

The `src` directory has subdivisions directory with each containing an important part of the application.
The `src` directory itself must only contain scripts that is used to create and maintain the process.
Functionalities such as parsing configuration, connecting different instances are stored directly on the directory root level.

`common`: Contains commonly used utility and interfaces. All components **MUST NOT** import from outside the directory. Anything can link to it or import it directly without limitation.
This defines the Public API of the application that is used in plugin creation as well as the shared ground that all Instances use to communication with each other.  
`instance`: Contains directories of instances where each instance is a component of the application that runs independently to some degree of each other.  
`types`: Additional types definitions used for typescript when importing external libraries that miss the required types or have misdefined types.  
`utility`: Commonly used functions/classes that **MUST NOT** link to any instance.  
`features`: A new file structure for features where each direct sub-dir is a whole feature including its database, commands, and anything else that it requires.

## Source Code Design

Code infrastructure design is all in `src/common`.
Check files such as `src/common/application-event.ts` and `src/common/commands.ts` and `src/common/plugin-instance.ts` for more up-to-date info.

New features are meant to go into `src/features`. Old legacy features will stay in their place till they need refactoring for one reason or another. And even then,
it is up to the contributor to decide whether it is worth refactoring it into the new system.
The new system is meant to encapsulate entire features into their own scope preventing future misunderstandings.
